<<$Id: README,v 1.8 2000/09/10 14:49:02 mitch Exp $>>


  whatsnewfm 0.2.1
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 2000/09/10

 (c) 2000 by Christian Garbs <mitch@uni.de>

 Licensed under GNU GPL (see COPYING for details)



  !!  Important changes from version 0.2.0:
  !!  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  !!  whatsnewfm needs a configuration file ~/.whatsnewfmrc
  !!  See [4] for details.



  Contents
  ~~~~~~~~

  Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
  Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
  Usage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
  The configuration file  . . . . . . . .  4
  The "hot" database  . . . . . . . . . .  5
  Download  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
  Thanks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
  Future Plans  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8



     Feel free to contact the author at <mitch@uni.de> for any
     questions or suggestions.



  [1] Description
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

whatsnewfm is a utility to filter the daily newsletter from
www.freshmeat.net

The main purpose is to cut the hughe newsletter to a smaller size by
only showing items that you didn't see before.

The items already seen will be stored in a database. After some time,
the items expire and will be shown again the next time they are
included in a newsletter.

If you find an item that you consider particularly useful, you can add
it to a "hot" list. Items in the hot list are checked for updates so
that you don't miss anything about your favourite programs.



  [2] Requirements
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* procmail or something else (otherwise you will have to send every
                              newsletter through the filter by hand)

* perl, sendmail, date



  [3] Usage
  ~~~~~~~~~

1) Extract the archive to a directory of your favour.

2) Copy the file "whatsnewfmrc.sample" to "~/.whatsnewfmrc" and edit
   it to your needs. See [4] for details.

3) Create the empty databases with "touch /path/to/database-hot" and
   "touch /path/to/database-old". Use the filenames specified in your
   configuration file.

4) Add the following lines to your .procmailrc to send all newsletters
   through the whatsnewfm filter:

:0 w :
* ^Subject:.\[fm-news\].newsletter
* !^X-Loop:.*whatsnewfm
| /path/to/whatsnewfm.pl

5) Add whatsnewfm to your hot database: "whatsnewfm.pl add whatsnewfm"

6) Check your setup by mailing the file "welcome" to yourself with
   "[fm-news] newsletter TEST" as subject:

     mail -s "[fm-news] newsletter TEST" your@email < welcome

   You should then receive an update information for the whatsnewfm
   application. This is good. Otherwise, there is an error in your
   setup.

7) If you're not yet subscribed to the freshmeat newsletter, do so at
   http://www.freshmeat.net 

8) If one of the new applications is interesting to you, then add
   it to your "hot" database. See [5] for details.



  [4] The configuration file
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The configuration file is a plain text file in your home directory
named "./whatsnewfmrc". Lines beginning with "#" are treated as
comments. Other lines consist of keywords and values:

  KEYWORD=VALUE

You need to specify the following keyswords:

* MAILTO=email@address
  This is the eMail address to which the filtered newsletter and the
  updates of 'hot' programs are sent.

* DB_OLD=~/.whatsnewfm.db.old
  This is the filename of the 'old' database.

* DB_HOT=~/.whatsnewfm.db.hot
  This is the filename of the 'hot' database.

* EXPIRE=12
  After this time (in months) an entry from the 'old' database expires.

* UPDATE_MAIL=single
  All updates of 'hot' applications from one newsletter are sent
  in one single eMail. If you would like to have a unique eMail for
  every application, set this key to "multiple" instead of "single".

* MAIL_CMD=/usr/lib/sendmail
  This is the location of your sendmail command (or any command
  that can be called in the same way as sendmail).

* DATE_CMD=/bin/date
  This is the location of your date command.



  [5] The "hot" database
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This database contains the applications that you are interested
in. You will be informed of every update within these applications.
The applications are identified by the "project id" that is shown in
the parsed freshmeat newsletter.

To see what is in the database, just may use "less" or "cat" on the
database file (although the 'view' command (see below) should be used,
that's what I wrote it for).

To edit the database, please use the whatsnewfm commands as shown
below - DON'T edit the files with a text editor. Some strange things
might happen when you edit the database while whatsnewfm is running in
the background (your text editor won't recognize a lock on the
database).

These examples use the project id "whatsnewfm" - in case you forgot:
That's the program you're just reading about.



To view all applications that are in the database, just type this:

  whatsnewfm.pl view

This just prints the whole database file on stdout.



To add an application to the database, just type this:

  whatsnewfm.pl add whatsnewfm

You can enter a comment to help you remember what this application
does (good for project ids that are acronymns):

  whatsnewfm.pl add whatsnewfm Parses the freshmeat newsletter.

If you want to enter multiple applications (eg copy'n'paste while
reading the new freshmeat newsletter) you can start whatsnewfm like
this:

  whatsnewfm.pl add

whatsnewfm.pl then reads from stdin. Every line must begin with a
project id. Comments might follow after a whitespace character (space,
tab or the like). If you're finished, press CTRL-D. All entered
applications will be added to the "hot" database.



Deleting applications is as easy as adding applications. You can give
the project id's directly (just one or even more):

  whatsnewfm.pl del whatsnewfm

You can also give the ids on stdin (like the add command):

  whatsnewfm.pl del

This time multiple project ids are allowed on one line when they are
separated by whitespaces.



  [6] Download
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The homepage of whatsnewfm is here:
  http://www.h.shuttle.de/mitch/whatsnewfm.en.html



  [7] Thanks
  ~~~~~~~~~~

* Piotr Sieklucki <psiekl@venus.ci.uw.edu.pl> offered to build
  whatsnewfm RPM packages.

* All those people who told me that whatsnewfm didn't work any more
  when freshmeat changed the newsletter format. Apparently someone
  really uses this piece of software :-)

* Michael Reinsch <mr@uue.org> for keeping on asking and not being
  convinced by my wrong thoughts. Only because of him versions beyond
  v0.0.1 do exist.
  


  [8] Future Plans
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Items marked with ? mean "Does anybody need this?". If you want to
have this feature, then please contact me and I'll include it in one
of the next versions.

? Compress the databases using gzip, bzip2 or the like.

? Save the application names in the "old" database (like comments in
  the "hot" database).

? Provide an option that always shows messages with high urgency.

* Provide a scoring mechanism to move interesting applications to the
  top of the new item list.

* Create backup files only when there have been changes (like watchfm).

* What to do when the same item appears twice in one letter?

* Use a database like gdbm, ndbm or dbm instead of plain ascii files
  (this will only happen on a boring, cold and rainy sunday afternoon).

- Looks like it's impossible to version 0.0.x databases to the new 0.2.x
  format. As of now, no converter will be written.